

NOTES ON CONCURRENCY 


- Goroutines are like actors that will go and do stuff. They each need an event loop to process incoming signals. That event loop is the for/select pattern. Your actors run off at the same time (concurrently) and do stuff; the output of the work they do they put into channels. So you can have workers channel output back to the main func goroutine via channels it received from it. 

- Channels 
- this is how go routines communicate. For example you can have a parent routine that spanns child routines, you can pass a channel to each chid and each child can place things into the channel, the parent could then read from that 
Closing channels 
- the sender has to close the channel, not the reciever (from a function perspective)
- you need to close channels there is not garbage collection. They can be done using the close() statement. defer close(channel) - you need to close channels and typically you would close it 
- or you can rely on ctx, which would propagate a cancel down the chain of functions and then in your select statement check for ctx done() and close your channels there

WaitGroups 
- This tool allows you to tell your app how many goroutines it should wait to finish before proceeding. 
- you declare a wait group and every time you launch a grouting you 

- for/select - with select you can check the channels. In the children you could do work, put that work into the channel, and then in the parent, the parent can have its own event loop that reads from that same channel 

- select - in goroutine and channel lifecylce management, Itstead of iterating over items in a channel to figure out when to close a channel or read things from a channel, you use select  statements when you have mutiple things you need to check in your for eventloop. For example 
	1. checking multiple channels - maybe you have 2 channels one is high priority 
	2. context - if you have a context passed into your goroutine from another, that context could cancel the operation; it does this by passing done() into its channel. So you're left with two cases in the select, checking context for done() and your own biz logic channel. 
	3. Periodic work - in addition to your channel you can have a ticker and you can
	check if the ticker is done 

- In the select statement, the default entry is when you want to have "try and continue" type behavior that is nonblocking. If you don't use it, then the event loop is blocked whlist waiting for all the channel events you've 
specified in the event loop

- This is an example of how to fire off linux command line apps using the cmd library in speparate go routines
- reading stdout (the output of the cmd) is itself blocking, so you can put that into a goroutine  
Main Goroutine
├── go commandWorker(ctx, results, 1)  ← Launches new goroutine
│   ├── Command setup (in commandWorker goroutine)
│   ├── go func() { ... }  ← Launches stdout reader goroutine
│   │   └── Stdout Reader Goroutine
│   │       ├── scanner.Scan() (blocking)
│   │       └── stdoutLines <- line
│   └── Main event loop (in commandWorker goroutine)
│       ├── select on stdoutLines
│       └── results <- processedResult
└── Continue main goroutine work...

- On the consumer side 

architecture for youtube scrapes

1. I have a csv of channels. For exch youtub echannel I wnant to download a list of videos.

2. Each of the channels has a distinct url and meta data. Those are captured in an object called ChannelToBeScraped. Each object = one youtube channel This object contains the detauls of the channel such as url and platform etc. 

3. Because for each object (channel to be scrpaed) i want to have a separate goroutine that goes and fetches the videos, i create a manager called "CommandManager"

4. CommandManager is initialized with a bunch of  ChannelToBeScraped in a slice. 
5. CommandManager also has a bunch of other attribures, such as 
	- a channel for all the goroutines to write content to
	- the file to write the output to from the channel 

6. I start CommandManager.CommandWorker to use cmd.execute to launch yt-dlp. These will be launched in separate goroutines 

7. The CommandWorker will pipe the stdout stream from yt-dlp to a json object. Because reading from stdout is a io blocker, this is done is a child goroutine of the main commandworker goroutine. This child goroutine needs a channel to hold the stdout from yt-dlp. Since it's a one off goroutine that simply will read from stdout, then you can close the channel once it'd done. Done is when there is no more output and yt-dlp terminates. 

CommandWorker also has a main event loop, this loop reads from the stdout channel created for the cmd-yt-dlp instance. 

8 There are two "bridge" channels in the worker function which unblocks the stadout io and stederr io of the yt-dl process. These are housed in child go routines which push stdout and stderro content from yt-dl to the bridge channels; thus not blocking the main routine. The commandworker routine, has it;s child goroutine managgin the stdout to push the output from it's bridge channel to main ressult channel; the main goroutine in main() will read it from the result chanel later

stderr output is captured and logged through the centralized ErrorAggregator using RecordError() 

PATTERN
1. the waitgroup has a wait function that can be called. the caller of the wait function will block until all of the waitgroup counters go to zero. 

--- 

Robust Production functionality
PROBLEM
multiple goroutines need to handle errors concurrently without race conditions

SOLUTION
Use centralized ErrorAggregator with thread-safe RecordError() method. All goroutines send errors to a buffered channel, which is processed by a dedicated error-handling goroutine. This avoids mutex complexity and consolidates all error logging.



----
DEBUGGING GO ROUTINES 
here are the ways to debug goroutines 
https://claude.ai/share/66185c91-9271-4d04-8dd0-32d36782ea6d

COUNTING GOROUTINES
use this code below to output the count of how many goroutines you app is using 
----------
import (
    "runtime"
    "time"
)

func debugGoroutines() {
    ticker := time.NewTicker(1 * time.Second)
    go func() {
        for {
            select {
            case <-ticker.C:
                fmt.Printf("Active goroutines: %d\n", runtime.NumGoroutine())
            }
        }
    }()
}

func main() {
    debugGoroutines() // Add this at the start
    // ... your existing code
    
    // At the end, check final count
    time.Sleep(100 * time.Millisecond)
    fmt.Printf("Final goroutine count: %d\n", runtime.NumGoroutine())
}
LABELLING GOROUTINES
1. Identify each goroutine with a start log.println and a defer log.println which helps you identify which rotines are starting and finishing. The ones not finishing are the hanging ones 




- Some goroutines you can just fire and forget, such as writing to a file. 
- Others if you use the select statement / pattern to send things to a channel or check a channel will live on forwever, especially if there is a default case statement in the select. 
- You have to make sure producers are closing the channels that consumer goroutines are consuming. If you close the channel that will terminate the select and that will release your goroutine. 
- if you have multiple producers, writing to multiple channels then you should use a waitgroup to count all the goroutines, and use the defer statement to close the (decrement the counter) wait. Then 
in the waitgroup wait section you can determine when all the waitgroups are done (goroutines) and then close the channel 

Context
1. there is also a way to pass a context down the tree of goroutines, and when youre done you call the cancel function which will ripple through the goroutines shutting them down. To support this in your goroutine you can accept a context with canel as a parameter, and then in a select statement inside the goroutine you check for a signal from the context. a bit like a call back function 

